 v2.0 
 
WWW.RITHMIC.COM 
1 R-Trader Pro Live Streaming 
Live Streaming Spreadsheets and Orders - An Intro 
An R-Trader Pro window can stream its content to an Excel spreadsheet. Simply click Create Live Streaming Spreadsheet 
from the toolbar to start streaming! 
 

 
 WWW.RITHMIC.COM  
2 R-Trader Pro Live Streaming                                                                                                                                                                                                      
 
1. How it works  
R-Trader Pro uses Microsoft Excel APIs directly to stream. There are no specific functions or formulas needed to learn, unlike 
RTD. The streaming functionality works in all versions of Excel including Office 365 subscriptions excluding Office Home & 
Student. 
The whole window content is streamed to an Excel workbook containing 4 sheets. You can customize this work book, save it and 
open it later by selecting Open Saved Spreadsheet. You can also add or insert new sheets to the workbook. 
 
The sheets are named after the window from which it is opened, such as  
1. Quote Board 
2. Place Orders-Quote Board 
3. Manage Orders-Quote Board  
4. Quote Board-Full 
You can also customize the sheet name by clicking Set Stream Name from the menu. 
 
2. Streaming in Linkable Mode 
Start streaming by clicking Create Live Streaming Spreadsheet (Linkable Mode) from the window tool bar for each window 
streamed. This will stream the data into one Excel workbook so you can cross-reference between different windows.  
The workbook containing multiple windows this way can also be saved. Use Open Saved Spreadsheet to open it again and 
click Create Live Streaming Spreadsheet (Linkable Mode) from each of the windows to re-initiate the streaming. 
 
 
 
 WWW.RITHMIC.COM  
3 R-Trader Pro Live Streaming                                                                                                                                                                                                      
3. Sheet 1: The Window 
All the content of the R-Trader Pro window - all visible columns when the streaming is initiated - is reflected in this sheet. This 
sheet refers its data from Sheet 4 (Full). 
Since all the data is referenced from Sheet 4, you can customize this sheet such as adding new columns of data or formulas. 
  

 
 WWW.RITHMIC.COM  
4 R-Trader Pro Live Streaming                                                                                                                                                                                                      
4. Sheet 2: Place Orders 
Use this sheet to place orders. Start by typing Buy/Sell, Qty, Symbol, Exchange, Market/Limit, Account Id, etc. The Status 
column will indicate any data entry errors and how to proceed. The columns in bold type are required based on the price type.  
You can control the order placement by using formulas in the Place Order Now or Enable Place Order columns. Set a value in 
the Max Orders To Place to limit the number of orders placed. 
Let’s say the Place Order Now has the formula =IF(Quotes!G14>3699,"Yes","No") and the Max Orders To Place is set to 1. 
This will place exactly 1 order when the price of the ES symbol breaches 3699 in Sheet 1. 
The Total Orders Placed will increment by 1 each time an order is placed. Last Order Number will update with the order 
number and the Last Order Status will show the current status (Filled, Canceled, etc.) of the order. 
 
 
 

 
 WWW.RITHMIC.COM  
5 R-Trader Pro Live Streaming                                                                                                                                                                                                      
5. Sheet 3: Manage Orders 
Use this sheet to cancel or modify orders. You can also cancel all orders for an account or symbol, flatten position for an account 
or symbol.  
 
5.1 Manage Orders: Cancel Order 
Start by typing the Order Number or reference it from the Place Orders sheet: Last Order Number 
You can control when to send the cancel requests by using formulas in the Cancel Order Now or Enable Cancel Order 
columns.  
Let’s say the Cancel Order Now has the formula =IF('Place Orders-Quotes'!S2="Filled","Yes","No"). This will send a cancel for 
the specified order number when another order is filled (referred from the Place Orders sheet: Last Order Status column) 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 WWW.RITHMIC.COM  
6 R-Trader Pro Live Streaming                                                                                                                                                                                                      
 
5.2 Manage Orders: Modify Order 
Start by typing the Order Number or reference it from the Place Orders sheet: Last Order Number. Specify either New Price or 
New Size or both.  
You can control when to send the modify requests by using formulas in the Modify Order Now or Enable Modify Order 
columns.  
Set a value in the Max Modifies To Place to limit the number of modifies placed. Changing this field will not trigger a new 
modify. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 WWW.RITHMIC.COM  
7 R-Trader Pro Live Streaming                                                                                                                                                                                                      
 
5.3 Manage Orders: Cancel All Orders, Flatten Positions 
Start by typing the Account Id.  
Specify a Symbol and Exchange if the operation applies to one symbol. Leaving the symbol and exchange columns empty will 
apply the operation to the account. 
Specify whether to cancel all orders by entering Yes/No under the Cancel All column. 
Specify whether to flatten the positions by entering Yes/No under the Flatten column.  
You can control when to send the request by using formulas in the Cancel All/Flatten Now or Enable Cancel All/Flatten 
columns.  
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 WWW.RITHMIC.COM  
8 R-Trader Pro Live Streaming                                                                                                                                                                                                      
6. Sheet 4: Full 
This sheet is used by R-Trader Pro to stream data into Excel. It shows the full data available in the R-Trader Pro window 
streamed including invisible columns. 
This sheet cannot be customized or modified. You can create other sheets referencing data from this sheet. All data shown in 
Sheet 1 likewise are refenced from this sheet. 
 
 
